docs/tutorial/installation.md, before:

---
title: "Installation Guide"
---


Pydre is a Python package, which means it can be installed using a Python package manager. If you are familiar with *pip*, you can use it to install Pydre as well. However, we recommend using *rye* for a more robust and isolated environment.

# Set up a new Pydre project directory with *rye*

# 1. Install Rye

Follow the instructions at [rye's official website](https://rye-up.com/) to install it on your system. You will probably need to restart your terminal after installation.

## 2. Set up your project directory

Create a new project directory and navigate to it:

```
mkdir my_pydre_project
cd my_pydre_project
```

Initialize a Rye project:

```
rye init
```

Add Pydre as a dependency:

```
rye add pydre
```

## 3. Install Dependencies

Rye will install pydre and all dependencies in a virtual environment specific to your project. To sync the dependencies, run:

```
rye sync
``` 

## 4. Verify Installation

Check that Pydre was installed correctly:

```
python -m pydre.run --help
```

The first run of python after installing and syncing may take several seconds while the python system prepares the dependencies. You should see the command-line help output showing available options. 

## 6. Start Using Pydre

Now you can run Pydre with your project files:

```
python -m pydre.run -p your_project_file.toml -o results.csv
```

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check any error messages in the terminal.
2. Verify that your [project file](../explanation/project_files.md) is properly formatted.

# Setting up a development environment

If you want to contribute to Pydre or modify its source code, you can set up a development environment. You will need to clone the Pydre repository but then you can run `rye sync` in the to install all the dependencies and continue from there. If you are more comfortable with *uv*, you can use that instead of *rye*.

Commit message:

add example file zip to documentation

docs/tutorial/installation.md, after:

---
title: "Installation Guide"
---


Pydre is a Python package, which means it can be installed using a Python package manager. If you are familiar with *pip*, you can use it to install Pydre as well. However, we recommend using *rye* for a more robust and isolated environment.

# Set up a new Pydre project directory with *rye*

# 1. Install Rye

Follow the instructions at [rye's official website](https://rye-up.com/) to install it on your system. You will probably need to restart your terminal after installation.

## 2. Set up your project directory

Create a new project directory and navigate to it:

```
mkdir my_pydre_project
cd my_pydre_project
```

Initialize a Rye project:

```
rye init
```

Add Pydre as a dependency:

```
rye add pydre
```

## 3. Install Dependencies

Rye will install pydre and all dependencies in a virtual environment specific to your project. To sync the dependencies, run:

```
rye sync
``` 

## 4. Verify Installation

Check that Pydre was installed correctly:

```
python -m pydre.run --help
```

The first run of python after installing and syncing may take several seconds while the python system prepares the dependencies. You should see the help output showing available command line options. 

## 6. Start Using Pydre

Now you can run Pydre with your [project files](../explanation/project_files.md) :

```
python -m pydre.run -p your_project_file.toml -o results.csv
```

If you want to try an example project file, follow along with the [getting started tutorial](getting_started.md).

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check any error messages in the terminal.
2. Verify that your [project file](../explanation/project_files.md) is properly formatted.
3. If you are still having problems, please [open an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/OSUDSL/pydre/issues).

# Setting up a development environment

If you want to contribute to Pydre or modify its source code, you can set up a development environment. You will need to clone the Pydre repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/OSUDSL/pydre.git
cd pydre
rye sync
rye test
```
If you are more comfortable with *uv*, you can use that instead of *rye*.
